foreign
that's right
and going with it rather than trying to
get it to be your version of right
is the practice of impartiality in
business and it's incredibly incredibly
useful welcome to the art of
accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease my name is
Brett Kistler I'm an adventurer
entrepreneur and a self-exploration
Enthusiast I'm here with my co-host Joe
Hudson Joe is a business coach who spent
decades working with some of the world's
top Executives and teams developing a
unique model of human patterns that
underpin how we operate with ourselves
each other and the world a good entry
point into this model is a mindset
called view vulnerability impartiality
empathy and wonder through understanding
and cultivation we learn to easefully
drop into the view State of Mind
deepening self-awareness and increasing
our connection with the world around us
to learn more about this podcast or
courses visit art of accomplishment.com
[Music]
in today's society we have this
archetype of the successful leader as a
commander someone who knows what they
want and bends the world to their will
in order to get it so many of us end up
elbowing our way into loneliness or
controlling Our Lives into a place we
later realize we don't want to be
how can we have clear goals and desires
while staying in flow with reality
what if accepting the outcomes we're
avoiding makes our desired outcomes more
likely on today's episode we'll be
discussing impartiality the eye in view
so Joe describe what you mean by
impartiality uh
yeah my 11 year old girl yesterday asked
me that question it was cool because it
gave me a very different answer
explaining it to an 11 year old the
answer that I normally give is
it's to not have an agenda for another
person at least in The View
modality it means that when you're
having a conversation you're not trying
to get the other person anywhere
so that's what it means in that way but
the the way I explained it to my
daughter
um was
it's saying I trust you
you know what's best
and when you're talking to somebody else
right so you're saying I trust you you
know what's best I'm gonna follow your
lead
I think you know what you need better
than anybody else could know what you
need you have more information and data
um to know what you need
and I want to explore that with you
that's impartiality
um
but what most of our conversations are
are very partial
and it would be things like
I know what you need let me give you
advice
I want you to be better I want you to be
healed I want you to be different
I want you to feel like I'm valuable in
this conversation so that that's the
partiality instead of the impartiality
so so that's what I mean particularly in
these kind of conversations there's a
other ways to think of impartiality
generally and that are really important
in one's journey and we may or may not
get into that but
for the
for the for the context of a view
conversation that's what it means
and and the reason on some level that
this is so important is because the
subtle message behind partiality is that
you think that you're smarter than the
other person
I know it's best for you if I can give
you advice
you think know what you you know you
think you know what's up and and that's
basically agreeing with the essential
myth that so many of us live with
and it's essential myth that we're not
good enough
and so if you're telling somebody that
you're you're also making that true for
them whereas if you if you are looking
at them and in the conversation
you see them as wise you speak to the
wise part of them the part of them that
knows then that's the part that's going
to come out and meet you and that's what
you get in that conversation instead of
the helpless person you get on the other
side of the conversation somebody who's
wise because that's the part that you're
asking to talk to and that you're
talking to let's let's dig into that not
good enough part a little bit more and
what is what is impartial about that
yeah so so there's this correlation
between thinking that you're not good
enough and let's call that shame and
that there's actions that prevent you
from being happy
right so it's like
um you think you're not good enough
because
you haven't worked out you think you're
not good enough because you still get
angry you think you're not good enough
because women don't like you and you
think that if you
do all that stuff if you work out enough
and
and if women like you or enough men like
you or whatever it is
then you're not going to have shame and
then you're going to be happy but the
causation is is actually the opposite of
what people think
it's far more that shame causes the
action than it is that the actions are
what cause the shame
meaning if you remove the shame then
it's very easy for the working out to
happen and for people to want to be with
you and
all that stuff it's the shame of Shame
is kind of like the locks that keep the
chains of bad habits in place I think I
think there's a guy ADI Ashante who said
that and um and that's what I mean it's
like it's the shame that holds the bad
actions in place or I don't want to call
them bad but the actions that prevent us
from being happy
I like this uh this like dual direction
of causation I
I think it would be interesting to see
it sort of as a loop as well our actions
and the consequences to our actions can
create shame and they can also heal us
um but if we're waiting for the for the
impact of the world to do that to us
then that's sort of disempowered when we
could actually work on the other side of
that Loop which is
seeing our own goodness seeing that
we're good enough as we are
and letting that shame dissolve which
then changes our actions to be less less
producing of consequences that would
lead to shame yeah it's absolutely a
dance it's absolutely a dance they
definitely um can feed off one another
but what I notice in the um
the mind of most people
they're not saying maybe I should stop
being so shame oriented I should stop
shaming myself
and so I think that's a most important
part to call attention to but yes
absolutely a dance yeah
so uh so what is the benefit of being
impartial
it's like um
CEO asking the CFO what's the benefit of
Revenue
um uh yeah so many benefits
um you don't shame people for one
um you're teaching people how to fish
not not feeding them fish
you're empowering the people in your
organization
um you're empowering your husband wife
kids
you don't have to save anybody anymore
you don't need to be valuable anymore
people are more likely to trust you
because you're not trying to fix them
that you're just being with them deeper
levels of connection you know I mean you
just keep on going there's
so many benefits from it and there's
only one kind of perceived loss that
people think they're going to have it's
like if I'm if I stop being partial then
I'm not going to get what I want which
is hilarious because if they were paying
attention to some degree they would
realize they've impartial their whole
life and they're still not getting what
they want
um in many arenas
right I would say that there's not a
obviously you're going to get what you
want and not get you what you want with
partiality
um but what I would say is that look for
a causation even look for correlation
there's not um I find people get what
they want far more when they are
being impartial and owning their wants
yeah it's fascinating I think I think
it's intuitive to us that being partial
often like being overly partial
it gets us doesn't end up getting us
what we want and so we learn
to we learn some weird form of
impartiality which is really just like
we use it as a way to be non-threatening
in a conversation
um but if we were to turn the partiality
all the way down to zero our Behavior
would approach random chance and we
wouldn't be going in any particular
direction at all and so how does how
does being impartial help you have
productive conversations and Achieve
goals and get what you want
yeah yeah great
uh yeah so there's no way I think any
mammal but definitely humans can be
completely impartial
um you know it's asymptotic meaning
that you can like dissolve more and more
of your partiality but you there's
always some partiality
um you see this in acting you know a lot
of the great directors the way they
direct actors is they just ask them what
do you want in this sentence or the
scene or this moment
it's how we do it and if you really want
to take it apart every single sentence
you have has some want underneath it has
some desire and it's like a great
exercise too
every sentence then say what it is you
wanted to achieve in that sentence so so
there's no way to get rid of partiality
it's as human as
breathing or having emotions or so I
think that's a really important part but
the
so I don't think there's any fear that
like we'll walk around aimless
I've never seen that in a person I've
seen people
stuck which is different but that's not
partiality that everybody that I know
who's really walking around what looks
aimless but is really stuck they have
they're very partial about trying to get
unstuck
and the other thing is that goals are
fine and wants are fine that's not what
we're saying we're saying that in the
conversation with somebody you let them
have their wants and goals and you have
yours and you don't try to
influence theirs it's kind of like
saying like it's like looking at a river
and if you're having a conversation with
one person and you're looking at the
river one way then you're like I want to
bend the river to the left
it's a lot of effort and it's a lot of
work and it's probably not going to work
or it's only going to work temporarily
whereas if the other one is like where
does the river naturally want to go and
how does that work with me or how is it
important to me not to work with that is
is the other way to look at that
conversation and being impartial is far
more like that what are a few more
examples of that like or is that a
metaphor in real life
hiring people so earlier in my career
um I would hire people and I'd be like
oh they're talented I want to try to get
them on board or
I had a vision for somebody and I'd be
like okay you know and now it's just
like and I I think I took it to the
other extreme for a while which was like
I would just ask people what they want
to do and if it wasn't exactly what I
wanted then I wouldn't hire them
it's like I would far rather work with
somebody who is wanting exactly the role
that I have to offer
so that's an it's another way of looking
at the impartiality is I'm not trying to
convince anybody who's talented to come
and work for me I'm just saying this is
what is my reality this is my world do
you want in is this something that's
that inspires you
um and then I know I have them I don't
have something I've convinced you know
to show up so also say no in sales is
another
another great example you know the best
salesman will challenge ask difficult
questions well even you know
look at a pipeline and try to get to
know as quickly as possible
um for instance I I worked um with this
artist who was having a hard time
selling
his stuff and I said look your job is to
go and get 50 rejections I need you to
in the next six months get 50 rejections
and after the 10th call that he made he
was in three galleries because as soon
as he could drop the partiality of
trying to convince them
then he was successful at being himself
which is what they wanted especially
particularly from an artist
um but if anybody who's done a good
sales program they know that um getting
to a no is just as important as getting
to a yes for time and effort and energy
and also here's another way to think
about it think of your best bosses think
of the people or clients if you if
you've never had a boss like who are the
people who who have
kind of been responsible for your
paycheck and have been the best
to work with and and you'll notice what
they are is they're incredibly clear
what their wants this is what I want
but they're not self-serving
what do you mean by that it means that
they're not they're being impartial
they're saying this is what I want
and they're letting you have the
autonomy to do the thing they're not
cajoling you or manipulating you or
being partial about how you do it right
or even partial about what you do
they're far more like this is what we
need to do if you don't want to do it
then maybe you shouldn't be here and
maybe we can get someone else to do it
but if you think about those bosses you
just don't feel them as self-serving and
and what happens in partiality is that
you when you're not being impartial the
thing that comes up is you look often
political and you definitely feel
self-serving to the people around you
whereas if you just own your wants
clearly
and and the way this works in say a view
conversation
is you can just own your partiality in
the middle of a conversation and it's a
very vulnerable thing to do and say oh I
noticed that I'm trying to fix you and
I'm so sorry
um and and if you think about it even
crazier than that imagine if you're in
the middle of a conversation you notice
someone's trying to give you advice
trying to get you somewhere and they say
to you wow I noticed that I'm giving you
advice I'm trying to fix you how do you
feel about that you think about that for
a second
most people most of the time are going
to say yeah please don't
yeah and yet we're freaking doing it all
the time and so that that's how it
builds trust and connection
yeah yeah speaking of like being
political I mean people all the time
um like all of us do it we manipulate by
hiding our true intentions and subtly
nudging a situation in the direction
that we want it to go and this could
sometimes be confused with impartiality
but I don't think that that's what
you're getting at what's the what's the
difference between actually being
impartial and just acting the part in
order to manipulate and how do we tell
in the moment if that's what we're doing
yeah you're correct they're not the same
thing and
and it's true that there's a there's a
body Sensation that goes with each one
of them and and
impartiality like view is is really a
state of mind state of being you know it
when you feel it more than you know it
if you're doing it
um intellectually but I would say
it's the same difference as hitting
somebody in the face and or hitting them
in the back while they're not looking
right if you're subtly nudging or trying
to and you're not owning your partiality
if you're not owning your wants in that
situation
then you're you're not being
straightforward with them it's a subtle
form of lying
and and the other thing is that most
people know when you're doing it right
most people you know when someone's
doing that most of the time we kind of
have this social contract that says
yeah everyone kind of does that so I'm
going to put up with it but none of us
like it and and none of us like doing it
I mean that's one of the other things is
that if you want to know how it is in
your body it's
it's uncomfortable
it's it's uncomfortable and you know
people can feel it and you can feel it
in others and of course there's some
folks who are intentionally uh
duplicitous it's definitely not the
majority of people
which I think is a misunderstanding I
think a lot of people who see someone
who's duplicitous
they feel like of course it's
intentional I find that often it's not
it's like a
a blind spot of narcissism and other
things lack of awareness but when yeah
exactly but it's like
the only time we really believe those
people is when we want to when we're
trying to fool ourselves anyways so
that's the other thing is like the thing
that you notice about people who are
duplicitous intentionally
it always blows up in their face and it
you know sometimes it takes five years
but it hardly ever takes more than five
years to do that whether you see this on
a large economic scale or
relationships it eventually blows up on
you which is interesting because you can
see people who are like not scrupulous
right you can see people who are like
maybe morally do morally questionable
things but they're straightforward about
it and they can actually do it for a
long time when they're not being
straightforward about it it almost
always blows up which is a really
particularly interesting phenomenon yeah
as far as how it is in the body it's
different for other people
each person kind of their body registers
things a little bit differently but all
you have to do is feel like you can do a
feel right now go into a memory of when
you were
kind of being subtly manipulative or not
subtly manipulative and feel how that
felt in your body
and then feel how it is when you're
being straightforward with your wants
even if it's scary
you can feel it then that's gonna inform
you
your body will know it much quicker than
your mind will I feel like a lot of
times that I've done that in the past
it's been
more just like a like an avoidance of
even recognizing that that's something
that's in my awareness but there is a
part that's aware of it and it gets
filtered out because it's inconvenient
for my ego yeah that's beautifully put
that's yeah it's exactly it's like
even if we don't make the ego the enemy
but there's something that we
um that we'd have to feel or look at if
we admit that to ourselves which is I
think typically the case when we're
being
manipulative we have a want that we
don't even that we're oftentimes we have
a want that we're ashamed of having
and so
we're
you know trying to get our wants met
without having to admit that we have
them yeah I think that that points to
this this whole practice being a state
of being because if if you're doing this
logically and you're trying to meet the
endpoint of oh I should be impartial
impartial will get me a better sales
will give me better relationships and
then you're constantly filtering for
whether or not you look like you're
partial or impartial uh that ends up
coming from a completely different place
than if it's the state of being
right yeah if you want them to see you
as impartial then that you're definitely
being partial right and it's going to be
seen
um absolutely which makes this you know
like begs the question if if true
impartiality actually requires
this state of mind that is actually
impartial and that meaning okay with any
outcome then what can we do to cultivate
that true impartiality when we are are
actually in reality afraid of so many
things and so many outcomes I've been
just focusing on this a lot this
question of like fear of outcomes
so here's my new approach at thinking
about this which is I don't believe in
outcomes
like the only way you can believe in an
outcome is if you believe time stops
hmm
but what about like a snapshot like
believing in an outcome being a you know
some lossy snapshot of the future but
that's exactly the point is it that it
had to stop like reality has to stop for
there to be an outcome right
it's like this age-old problem of you
know hey I wanted to see what my future
is and someone shows you your future and
you're like happy and have a lot of
money
and then like you get there in like two
days later you're
broke miserable and
you know like so where's your future is
it the moment where you're happy is it
the moment that you were sad like what's
happening there so so I don't believe in
outcomes because outcomes
is the idea that there's some end State
and there isn't
um but but with that said I understand
we have our fear and our fear creates
the idea of outcomes
um and so what do you do there is the
question
um what if what if you're afraid of
being in an eternal process of misery
yeah exactly that continues it's not a
Snapchat
yeah
um
yeah even that is a snapshot because
it's like Eternal like what is there
like is it you've just hit zero Baseline
there's no movement ever
but anyway
um yeah so so one is the kind of this
there's a tradition that's like the
stoic tradition and the Tibetan
Buddhists have it Samurai had it which
is
you know visualizing your own death over
and over again to undo the fear of death
you can do this with anything right so
if you're scared of getting fired go
visualize yourself getting fired over
and over again every step of it before
during after
feel everything that you would have to
feel if you got fired because our fear
really isn't about the thing happening
the fear is how what we will have to
feel if the thing happens right if
someone's like you're gonna get fired
but you're gonna be absolutely blissed
out the entire time you're gonna you're
gonna find out it's like an absolute joy
and pleasure and
and then you're not gonna have enough
money but that's okay because it's not
going to even dawn on you that you don't
have enough money you're just gonna be
in this place of absolute um loving the
situation as it is
and then money's gonna come and you're
going to be not attached to keeping it
that's like oh it was like what I don't
I don't have any fear of the future the
fear is all in the emotion so going
through the situation in your mind and
feeling all the emotions can really free
you of the fear
um because all of the emotions can be
enjoyed
um can be welcomed can be loved that
brings up something uh really
interesting and in my experience bass
jumping often
like before jumping off of a cliff it
you know you visualize the jump and I
frequently found myself visualizing all
the ways I could die on the jump
visualizing and pushing off in the wrong
way and the thing that I ended up like
actually visualizing was the moment of
Terror when I realized I'd [__] up and
you know had gone past a point of no
return out of control
and by doing that visualizing and
encountering that point of Terror where
I'd [__] up
yeah it made it so that if something
went off Axis or off of the plan that I
didn't have to feel the terror when that
happened I'd be like oh like this is
actually much less off the plan than all
of my visualizations were
so this is still salvageable let's work
with this yeah it's a beautiful metaphor
one of the principles that I work with
often is that the thing that we fear is
often something that we are um
unknowingly subconsciously inviting into
our world
because the things that we do to avoid
the thing that we fear are often the
things that bring them to us
and so what you're describing there is
that you visualize the worst possible
thing happening so you're not scared
that it's gonna happen right like if I
think about
two people who are best about to base
jump and one is like petrified that
they're going to screw up in one is okay
if they screw up and they jump off I I
can tell you which one my experiences is
going to have the higher chance of
[__] up yeah likewise right with a
lot of experience in that Realm yeah
which I'm I'm sorry for
um
because I know the consequence of that
um but yeah that's exactly how it works
but it works with getting fired too it
works with um
you know every every aspect of our fear
and so that's the other thing you can do
is just grieve the loss which is another
way of feeling the pain in advance the
other thing you can do is just call
yourself out for being partial like
somehow or another just saying oh this
is the outcome that I want can relieve
you of that want for the outcome
how does that happen
it's like I'm sorry I notice that I uh
really want to be valuable to you and
and
that's not the best way that I can
respect you or this conversation I
apologize for that another thing that
happens a lot um like all of us we've
been in some kind of tense discussion or
a negotiation
um where somebody just throws up their
hands and they say okay whatever I don't
care
um which is sort of the opposite of the
thing you were just getting at which is
like own like like owning a want and
then letting letting the partiality for
that want dissolve it is like completely
disowning the want
and it's a way of disconnecting what's
what's the difference between
uh impartiality and this
sort of impartial apathy or avoidance
I'm holding back my latches so I don't
interrupt your question
as soon as you ask that question it it
hit me I remember
um my daughter I think she was like
eight or nine years old and you know at
that time like kids are always like I
don't care I don't care I don't care and
she comes home she goes Dad I think I
know what I don't care means and I'm
like really what does it mean she says
it means I care
huh
I just laughed I'm like yeah yeah that's
kind of that's my experience of it too
is that when people are saying I don't
care they're saying I do care but I it's
hurting so much that I don't want to
care yeah I don't want to feel this I
don't want to feel this yeah so so I
don't care to me it's just a strategy
um you'd see their strategy to get what
you want like to say I don't care so
that someone chases you
or to get out of the responsibility or
the feeling but it doesn't that kind of
apathy isn't really we call it apathy
but it's not the kind of apathy which is
like
if a stranger came to me and said like
you know should I get a BLT or should I
get a veggie sandwich today
that would really be like you know like
they're being there would be
no desire for me to have that end up one
way or another and but I wouldn't be
apathetic about it
um so apathy is really just about people
not wanting to be hurt
for wanting for having a want
um
if you are impartial you may stop a
conversation right in the middle of it
and say that it doesn't hold any juice
for you you know that would be a thing
you know so
which isn't particularly apathy either
it's just saying oh wow I noticed that
this isn't this isn't inspiring me how
is it for you
imagine receiving that and if you're if
you're trying to sell to somebody and
the customer just does that and they're
like here's the information about what
I'm actually interested in all of that
presentation you were just doing I don't
care
yeah there's a story there's um a guy
named Mikey Siegel who uh has said this
so it's on the internet and um you know
in our first meeting
he was pitching me something when I was
an investor and um
we were just having a nice connection
time and then all of a sudden he got it
got into pitch mode and after about a
sentence I looked at him and I said I
noticed my entire body is getting tense
right now
okay that's just owning where I am
having no idea what he's going to say or
the consequences are you going to be mad
at me or
and it just created it such a deep level
of connection between us and our
friendship lasted lasts you know but has
been
um years of close relationship I've seen
him tell that story and the like the
recreation of the mind blow on his face
yeah hearing that from you know an
investor and like just realizing like
whoa I actually am really really trying
to get something right now and it's
obvious and and it when it went away
then we could actually connect and the
benefits that came out of our
relationship are far beyond whatever the
hell he could have gotten that he was
after
for me and for him I hope for him right
apparently that seems to be the case
yeah
so so we've we've worked through a lot
of what impartiality is and what it is
not
um what are some of the benefits to
practicing impartiality with intention
well it is a much deeper peace of mind
you're more likely to be in flow with a
person
um and hitting that flow state is
something we all want so that creates
deeper connection
you also find out that if you don't want
to be with somebody sooner so you don't
kind of
get stuck in a bad relationship as
easily or for as long
um you usually come up with better
Solutions this is the thing that you
have to talk to a lot of managers about
because they're like wait a second hold
on I'm getting paid good money to have a
really strong agenda for my entire
organization
um but basically what you're it's the
same thing what you're saying is that
the organization doesn't want to [__]
do the right thing and if that's the
case fire them
fire them if they don't want to do the
right thing what the hell are you hiring
why are you paying them what the hell is
going on there are people out there who
want to do the right thing
for your company so then then if if you
assume that if you assume that everybody
who's working for you actually wants to
do the right thing then it's just a
matter of whether they're capable of it
or whether they can see it and you don't
particularly need to be partial
to educate folks
you can just educate you can just say
this is my vision and
also you're missing something guaranteed
I don't care I don't care if you're
Steve Jobs I don't care if you're Elon
Musk you're missing something that the
great leaders know they're missing
something so they want to be around
really smart people they want people in
the room smarter than them
and the only way you're going to find
out what you're missing is if you let go
of your agenda for a minute right it
doesn't mean you let go of your goals it
doesn't mean you let go your wants but
like if you're sitting in a conversation
you're just trying to push people into a
particular kind of action
you know more micromanagement level or
even macro Management on that kind of
thing what you're doing is you're not
getting the best ideas and so I'm
constantly
um seen when Executives get this idea of
like oh right if we all have agreed on
the goal so I don't have to manage
anybody to an outcome if we've all
agreed on that really truly agreed on
that
then everybody can work together to come
up with the best solution and my way is
never the best way it is a part of the
best solution also you're following data
more you know
you know people when they're partial
don't look at data the same way they
don't run the experiments the same way
so you get to see what's real which is a
far better way to build a business or a
relationship with what's real rather
than what you want I think the other
thing is that you won't you won't have
the same conversation with the same
person 10 times you know right we all
have we all have that relationship or
have had that relationship where it says
like
I'm talking to this person about their
bad marriage again right and I guarantee
you if you're in that it's because you
want them to be different because if you
if you were impartial that conversation
wouldn't come back over and over again
yeah it's like the only thing that could
keep you in a stable Loop in that way
would be
that you have some impartiality that is
creating a confirmation bias filtering
your information to fit a certain story
yeah that's really interesting
so how do our how do our personal lives
and our our professional lives change as
we as we practice impartiality what what
happens to us internally and what
happens around us you're going to find
yourself surrounded by a lot less people
stuck and victim scenarios in their mind
you're going to learn a lot more and
therefore have better ideas because
you'll spend that time that you are
trying to you know manage people and
learning instead of in management
you will have to draw more boundaries
you know that's a really important thing
like one of the reasons people are so
partial is because they're not drawing
the boundaries that they want or or not
explaining the vulner the vulnerable
want that's in in their system what's a
good example of that oh
it's easier to try to fix
um your friend who's dating the same guy
with a different name 10 times in a row
than it is to say
I don't want to hear this story anymore
another example is
um I have you know let's say I have an
employee and
um they're consistently not doing the
things that they've said they're gonna
do and I just have to hold a boundary
instead of trying to manage them out of
it and have partial conversations I just
have to say if this isn't happening then
I have to assume you don't want to work
here because if you wanted to you'd do
it or you're not capable you're not
capable please let me know right so you
have a far you're far more likely to
have to draw a boundary and to say what
you want directly
you know imagine a manager who like sits
around the table and tries to get
everybody aligned and another manager
who starts off saying what I really want
what I really really want is for us all
to be aligned growing in the same
direction with a common set of goals how
do we do that
I have some ideas this is my ideas what
do you guys think
but as compared to
I don't want to have to ask for that I
don't want to have to draw that boundary
so I'm going to really want it to happen
but I'm not going to be outright
forthright with it and then I'm going to
be partial in every conversation to try
to make it occur which is a lot of
managers
[Music]
um reminds me in a relationship of like
when when somebody gets angry about not
receiving not not having something done
for them that they didn't ask for
waiting for somebody to notice what they
want and do it exactly right because
they don't have to want to be vulnerable
in that want or vulnerable
and in the boundary that's right that's
exactly right
um so that happens a lot less that kind
of thing will happen a lot less in your
in your story another good story that I
have around this is that I was doing
this Workshop in Boston and Cambridge I
think it was and um
and there was a man he was an older man
and been successful
um entrepreneur
um
had a lot of depression you know life
but he was older and
somewhere in the like the
close to the second day of the thing he
he just looked at me and started crying
he goes I don't think I've ever had an
impartial conversation in my whole life
because he had just had one he just had
his first impartial conversation in his
whole life
and he was crying and it was it was an
amazing moment and um
and he kind of looked at me and he goes
I had no idea the level of connection
that I was missing
and I think that's the big thing is that
like if you think about the people who
always have an agenda for you when you
talk
how close do you feel to them how much
do you want to be around them
like
how defended do you feel and I mean just
and if you're a parent especially of an
adult child
if they don't want to be around you I
guarantee you have an agenda for them I
guarantee it you want them to be safe
you want them to be a doctor or whatever
the heck it is they might be around you
but they don't want to be and you feel
it and you feel in loved because of it
we've talked a lot about how this
applies to relationships with others and
what does it look like to be impartial
with ourselves or in relation to
something more abstract like uh like our
businesses or to a professional career
yeah
with the view all we're focused on is
being impartial with others
um
so I just say when if you're in the
conversations doing the the course using
the framework really just focus on being
impartial about the outcome for the
other person where they end up
um but yeah it's a deeply
um beautiful and Powerful practice to be
impartial with yourself
if you think about meditation um there's
a saying that goes
most people who are meditating or
managing themselves which isn't
meditation it's torture
meditation when you're not managing your
experience when you're happy with
whatever experience is occurring that
then it's just Bliss it's just Joy
so
learning to not manage yourself in
moments is incredibly useful because
what it is is it's basically saying I
trust my inherent goodness I trust my
my impulse the impulse of life that
moves through me so that's kind of the
big benefit because that is the path
that leads you to
deep self-recognition but you know we
all have expectations of ourselves that
we cling to and they're painful and
we're constantly
revising them and we're constantly
trying to
um you know get ourselves somewhere and
it causes us a tremendous amount of pain
we had this voice in our head that's
just
often quite violent and abusive and a
practice of impartiality with yourself
is
is really useful the impartiality with
business is it's again that really
subtle thing about it's clear it's good
to have wants it's good to have goals
how you get there
that is where the the impartiality can
be incredibly useful again with the film
things that when you're a director
working with actors if you tell the
actor this is exactly how I want it
you're not going to get it but if you
can give them Direction and then
recognize Something Beautiful when it
comes you can get that easily and all
day
and so
recognizing something that's right
and going with it rather than trying to
get it to be your version of right
is the practice of impartiality in
business and it's incredibly incredibly
useful
you like I've been in so many bit and
everybody can relate to this it's like
there's this business that especially
happens in big businesses you get the
big business and they say I want to do
it this way but I have to check with
this person who has and then another
person has to be checked in is like six
different things and everybody's because
everybody's trying to get to some
perfect solution where nobody's going to
be mad at them and they're going to be
successful and it's like an ungodly
amount of time and energy that would
have been so much more useful to do some
you know to do something get some advice
make a couple mistakes it would have
been a lot less
painful and often a far better result if
you can allow that level of impartiality
and not try to have to make everything
perfect
there seems to be a um maybe a scale or
a spectrum of like short-term partiality
and long-term partiality like
when we're in a fear State we're just
trying to get what we want right now
and in longer term partialities like
we're willing to be more patient
and that allows for more slack and
flexibility in the how and the exactly
what it ends up becoming yeah that's
right I think short-term partiality is
far more fear-based than long-term
partiality I think long-term partiality
is far more principles based it's like
how do I want to be and what's the world
that I want to be in and what's my
vision for the world
you're watching for how the world wants
to provide that for you and taking
advantage of those moments rather than
trying to force the world to
succumb to your will
which is
if it works it's a lot more effort and a
lot less happiness in it
and so I think that most of the time you
can tell the difference because when
people are thinking about long-term
stuff they're they're really not moving
from a place of fear or or even the same
kind of intense fear
yeah they're willing to go through a
little bit of the [__] to get to a more
Global Optimum that's right yeah yeah
they're not less likely to avoid stuff
yeah one there's a CEO that I worked
with and he um he used to say he had
this thing called the kitchen drawer
Theory which is basically
there's that kitchen drawer that nobody
wants to look at because they want to
they're like oh [__] that's a mess I
don't want to have to fix that he's like
my job as a CEO is to find all the
kitchen drawers and and go look in them
you know if that's your partiality if
your partiality is to do that it's a
very different
um thing because it's not driven by this
like uh fear that the short-term
partiality has it's more principally
it's more of a principle I have a
principle of embracing intensity going
into the mess
because I know that that makes the life
that I want so as as you practice this
and let's say you're in like a high
pressure sales culture or some other
environment where partiality is
encouraged
and accept it as a norm what's likely to
happen when when one person in that
group starts to relax their partiality
as a result of this practice and what
challenges are they likely to face and
what tends to happen in in those kinds
of teams sales teams are the best for
this because a lot of them are that way
so
if it's a not a short-term sales cycle
if there's any kind of relationship that
can be built the person who lets go the
partiality gets better results typically
because the person who if there's space
for the long-term partiality in the
relationship that's part of it part of
it is if you're trying to convince
somebody of something they can feel it
based on their mirror neurons
and it's like being attacked on a cell
level so their brain turns off curiosity
they stop wanting to learn we have all
sorts of evidence
that people when they're in fear or
feeling attacked they don't learn as
well so you you can't educate them on
your product as easily
if people see that you really care for
them and want them to make a best
decision for them and you're following
their wisdom
then eventually you're going to make a
lot more sales than the short term
thinking but there's there's obviously
some sales organizations where that
doesn't work because
it's like a phone bank you just call
people and so aggressive works because
there's some people who will do what you
say when you're aggressive with them
you know that that's their personality
and in the long term that might not
actually be what's best for your company
because you attract a certain type of
customer and then your product gets fit
to a certain type of a market yeah and
somebody else could do a better job of
serving the customer in a more long-term
way and then wipe you out that's
actually happening right now in all of
all places there's a company that's
doing something like this
um in credit in
buying bad debt and there's a company
out there I can't remember the name
um but bad dad say it again deadly
deadly yeah I guess that's it um
but basically it's the same thing where
most of the debt is like I will
intimidate you until you pay me and
these guys come in and they're like I
want to work with you about this and
most people want to also relieve their
debt and they get a much better result
and it's just a perfect example of how
that happens
and if you have a phone bank it's all a
numbers game like make 100 calls so that
you can get three or four to work
and then aggression can work but at long
term it's a bad business model like I
said lasts generally about five years at
most also if you start doing it in the
team if it's a really aggressive culture
the team will turn against you
because they don't want to feel what
you're making them feel
the person who does it often leaves gets
a better job does something better in
their life it becomes you're referring
to the person who does the does the
impartiality yeah yeah they typically
get out of that situation find something
that's actually life-affirming instead
of
um you know some people get off on the
power of you know of that kind of like
intensity like it makes them feel
powerful
and they really need to feel that power
because they felt so disempowered in
their life and so if they start learning
their impartiality they just get out of
those circumstances and find real
empowerment instead of just the
short-term power
and occasionally you have a great team
that has that kind of intensity and then
they realize like the whole team
realizes it but that usually you need a
really great leader to see that how can
how can this go wrong or be taken too
far like in in what situations if any
would too little partiality be dangerous
or counterproductive or or if somebody's
working on the working on their
impartiality in a team like that is
there a way that it could be distorted
in a way that's destructive If you deny
your wants yes if you try to pretend
that you don't have wants then yeah you
could it's not good
um so you gotta own your wants you gotta
own your boundaries on your wants
um so
if you're trying to be so impartial that
you don't have any wants and you're
above your Humanity
um you start disassociating all his
Bliss and that kind of thing
which is true it is all Bliss but if
you're denying that your own wants and
your own Humanity it'll sap all the joy
out of your life
so that's the one way it can go too far
and it can seem like it goes too far
sometimes when you know
you stop being partial and then the
Savior or the bully has
at like the the a person
playing the different roles around you
might say like oh I don't want this
relationship anymore often times
when people say oh wow I'm not going to
try to fix my friends or make them
happier try to be valuable to them
anymore the those friendships some of
those friendships don't last and some of
them get transformed into something far
more beautiful
[Music]
let's get a little bit more into the
difference between wants and partiality
so the main thing the main difference is
that wants are owned and partiality is
not owned so to own your wants outright
in a conversation is quite vulnerable it
allows you to feel exposed it and you're
you're telling people your actual truth
and and so there's a vulnerability to it
and being partial you can hide all that
stuff on some degree and
and not take a look at it and so it
becomes implied and I think that that's
the main difference between the wants
and the partiality the other thing is
that when you own your wall completely
um ownership can actually make the want
less intense
and allow you to see what the world is
like especially if you add to an apology
with it which is like oh I want for you
to be
different than you are and I apologize
for that it can really relieve you from
that pull of trying to make them
different and it puts you in yourself it
makes you feel empowered because you're
saying you realize it you want them to
be different so you can feel safer that
you can feel loved or
whatever that is whereas partiality is
all kind of under the covers
so that that's the main thing between
the two
and so the other thing is that the wants
because they're owned outright and you
can see them it becomes really apparent
how
your wants their wants can work together
and you can find something that works
best for everybody
um the
partiality is often not owned so it
can't really be seen
as the thing that it might become which
is something that can actually work for
everybody
so for instance if I'm partial that you
have a breakthrough while we're having a
conversation
that's really all about me it's under
the covers it's um not the thing that's
best for everybody
and if I see you as knowing whether you
want a breakthrough or not it's a far
more
a beneficial thing for everybody
so to summarize all of what we've been
talking about for for us to practice the
impartiality in our view conversations
what are what are some some bullet
points uh some do's and don'ts yeah as
far as partiality it's easier to Define
them as don'ts
um
so it'd be don't try to fix people don't
try to get them to a conclusion don't
try to be valuable or have them see you
as valuable
don't want them to be different don't
try to get them to be different don't
look to convince don't try to lead them
to a solution
don't want them to see things your way
those are the big ones what is an
example of a time that you really felt
yourself wanting to be partial or being
partial
worked your way through it noted it
recognized it and ended up showing up
with impartiality and impartiality in a
way you hadn't before and what was the
result
yeah it was it was pretty early in my
relationship with my wife I think it was
in year four or five she had invited me
to come and do something with her that
was really important to her I had not
seen how important it was to her also
didn't want to go and she came back and
she was be pissed I remember she was all
dressed up for it so she was like
incredibly beautiful at that moment and
pissed
she was like yelling and you know we
used to heal it a lot at each other back
in those days and um so she was just
yelling and I really really wanted her
to not punish me I really really wanted
her to see me
for the loving person that I was I
really really wanted her to
um know that I loved her I really really
wanted her to stop being angry
which was kind of typical in those
fights and I and there's something just
clicked to me and I was just like it's
okay for her to be just the way she is
and she just got angry and let it out
and
it lasted maybe like three or four
minutes and then she got angry at me for
not reacting and that lasted for like a
minute
and then kind of wore off with her she
needed some alone time it wasn't like
this quick fix or anything like that but
for me it was like Freedom it was like
oh oh oh oh
I don't have to curb myself
I can be me here I can be me in the face
of this I can love her and it was love
it was like I can love her just as she
is no matter what's happening and the
freedom in that was outstanding such a
peaceful place to be in
as a beautiful story thank you for it
and thank you for another great episode
yeah but total pleasure thanks for
making the time
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
in your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]
thank you
foreign